Hello again in this video we're in the run up to the enemy smack him in the face a couple of times while
sort of the face and have him die and fall down in a crumpled heap.
Sara let's jump in and implement our death animation OK.
This is another video we're going to give you the challenge pretty early on and get you to solve it
yourself.
While we're looking at is the health script that we need to do some functions within here to trigger
our death animation we've done all this stuff before using the attack.
So let's have a look at what we need to do for our challenge.
What should a trigger death when health is zero within health dots.
Yes trigger the death animation when the character's health reaches zero.
There we go.
I've said it five times now it should be clear and four bonus points use a bool to stop triggering the
death animation once the poor fellow is already dead.
So there's lazy challenge if you need a hint.
I'll give you a hint just now.
Otherwise jump in and take on the challenge.
So the hint is.
Previously we set up the attack in our fighter script where we said to do.
Where are we in here.
We used the set trigger to trigger the attack.
So if you're a bit unsure about what to do there's a little hint for you.
But there we go there's all the clues.
Jump in and take on that challenge now.
Okay.
First thing I knew I think health is a nice broad kind of generic terminology but what we're really
doing here is increasing or decreasing our health points.
I'm just going to rename this f to health points just so it's really clear what we're doing.
Right.
Health points.
Okay.
So where we have our health points equals health points minus damage instead of just printing this out.
What do we want to do here.
Well say if health points is equal to zero.
And remember because we've got our previous line saying that it won't go any lower than zero.
That's why we can say equal to zero.
We don't have to say less than or equal to zero in this instance.
Then what do we want to do.
Well curly braces we will say get component and it is the animator we're looking for and it may tore
parentheses dot set trigger and we are going to put in will jump over to unity find I double click on
that ones click on it again.
Copy just to make sure we get it exactly perfect paste in there.
Excellent semicolon.
Save that I'll jump back over in unity see what's going on here.
I'm going to click on play.
I've noticed something about the capsule Claudia.
We'll get back to in a moment but click on play come over punchy and once twice punched him in the groin
a couple of times and you can see we're continuing to bash in which is hilariously funny.
But we'll do something to prevent that from happening.
But first of all just having a look at our capsule colliding here on our enemy so click on the enemy
and find the center on the y axis and just move that up so that it's probably one.
There we go.
That's gonna make it easier to actually click on the character anywhere and not accidentally click past
him.
Okay.
Very good saves that up.
Now let's go prevent this you know continuing to have him flop around on the ground after we've punched
him a couple of times so how are we gonna do that.
Well we need to create ourselves a ball to stop at the top here.
Line nine for me ball and we'll call this is dead and we'll initialize that at false because you start
off being not is dead and now where we're getting our animator and setting the trigger.
Let's extract this is a method tidied up a little bit will double click if to call this die nice and
dramatic now then die first of all we want to be checking if is dead because if it's dead then we don't
want to be doing anything that follows so we will return because he's already dead you don't need to
rub insult into injury and now if we're continuing we will set is dead equals true because we do need
to kill him and then to trigger our die so save that.
Jump back over into unity click on play run over to my enemy punch him a couple of times in the nether
regions there we go boom boom falls on the ground doesn't trigger.
Over and over and he's still punching he's still in the attack state which is not what we want but we'll
fix that up in upcoming videos.
One last thing I want to do while I'm here we made a couple of changes to the enemy so if you have to
the click on the enemy prefab up to the overrides you can see we've got the enemy script and the capsule
quite a click apply.
All will leave the health super low for now.
I changed the health down to.
I think what was it nine or eight eight points there they just changed the capsule quarter.
Okay great.
So now we can trigger our death animation.
Great work and I'll see you in an upcoming video.